alright so we are now going to switch to
using the music database that we used in
previous videos so we have a decent set
of data to work with as we look into
more detail performing queries using
jdbc to make sure that we're all
starting with the same data i've already
downloaded the database again from a
previous lecture that's that music .zip file
I've already unzipped it and
you can see here I've unzipped it into
this project and this is actually a new
project that i've created in IntelliJ
called music so again I've just copied the
music zip file from previous videos in
this section of the course when we were
doing command line queries unzip the file
music . DB and its now in the same
folder location as this new project
alright so next swing over to DB browser
of a sqlite and open the file to
just to check it out so i'm going to
come up here and click on open database
i'm going to open the music db and
that's in my music project and you can
see there we've got some representation
of the three tables albums artists and
songs and we can browse but if we want
to by clicking on browse data can be
quite useful and we can actually see the
various records as we scroll down I can
change table i'm looking at artists or
songs again we got a pretty good visual
representation of the data in the
previous videos we talked about jdbc and
we weren't really that fussy on how we
write the code that's because I was more
interested in teaching the basics of how
to connect to a database and how to
perform the basic crud operations but in
this video we're going to start paying
more attention to how we structure our
code especially since will eventually
want to work with the music database
from a GUI type application so what we're
going to do first is start by connecting
to a database and this time we're going
to use string constants from the
beginning i'm going to create a new
package in our project called model so
let's go ahead and do that expand
the source folder so can see
going to create a new package new
package will call it model we're
going to right-click model and we're
going to create a class and call this
one data source
ok we're going to need constant for the
connection string the database name the
table names and also the table columns
let's go ahead and do that so I'm going
to start with....
...
now if you're on Windows machine you type
....
...
so you that if your database your music Db is
in the on the d drive in a folder called
databases but in my case you can see
that I'm on a mac and that's the path to
the file I'm going to change that but
what i would do as i did in the last
video I just leave a copy of that they're so
you can refer to that just to get the
right syntax in my case on a mac I'm
going to put....
...
if your on linux you do something similar
because the path will be pretty much the
same or at least the past structure will be
obviously to be a different path for
your computer
alright so moving on we want to now add
the table for album so it's....
....
...
....because all the tables
have a column called _ID
and 2 of the tables have a column called
name you might be tempted to have only
one string constants for name and one for ID
or underscore ID that we use for every
table but it's better to have one string
constant per table that way we can
change the name of any column in a table
without worrying about impacting on
other tables
this makes our code a lot easier to
work with alright so let's keep all our
databases code within the model package
so instead of connecting to the database
directly from the main method let's
create a method within the data source
class to do that we're going to declare
a connection instance variable because
now will want the user of the data source
class to call a close method when its
finished working with the database so we
want do a private.....
....
....alright so the next thing
we need to do is add an open method to
open the database and a close method to
close it so public boolean open....
...
....
....so that's the open method so the
close method is....
....
...
alright so in the open method that we
use driver manager to get a connection
the method returns true if the
connections successfully established and
false otherwise and in the close method
unsurprisingly we closed the
connection
so going back now to main dot
java let's actually test this out so
we're going to start by creating a new
instance of our class....
....
...
alright so lets just run this and you can
see we got an error here so let's just
put this down the bottom again you can
see the error message there couldn't
connect to database no suitable driver
found and then for our sqlite jdbc
driver and of course the path as well so
we missed an important step
we haven't added the sqlite jdbc
driver and database classes to the
project so let's go ahead now and go to
the project structure libraries and add
sqlite jar fall
while I'm here going to change the
project level to 8 select libraries click
on + select java i'm going to select the
jdbc driver that we use previously in
this section of the course click on ok click on
ok again try running it again this
time this time we have don't have any errors so
obviously the drivers now working fine
now incidentally if you get your path
wrong
so in other words back here in the
data source if you ever accidentally
typed that wrong what you find will
happen is if it's still a valid folder
the database will get created for you
but it will be an empty database and you
might be wondering at that point why you
aren't able to see that the various
tables and that's because you've got the
path wrong so do make sure you
double-check and triple-check that
you've got the right path especially if
you've got any problems opening and
getting any errors because remembering
that the sqlite driver creates the
database if it can't find it
alright so lets now go ahead and
perform our first query so the artist
table has the fewest number of rows so
let's select all the rows in the table
and print them to the console once again
we're going to add a method to the
datasource class to do this now in large
enterprise applications we may well create
a class in the model package for each
table and the connections might be
coming from a connection pool but for a
small database like the music one we are
going to keep our database method within
a data source class now in this scenario do
we want the method to return results it
will actually no we don't because we
don't want classes that use methods in
the model package to have to understand
the implementation details of the model
that way if we changed databases later
or change to something that isn't a
database an xml file for example we only
have to change the code in the model
package so instead of returning a
resultset we can return a list of
artists and that means that we're going
to need classes for the artist the album
and the song we're going to create these
in the model package
let's actually start work on that in the
next video